[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Omega's a place for people
to deal with the experience
of life.
>> Come home to themselves.
>> Seekers of all kinds.
>> A spiritual community.
>> All paths meet.
>> A house with many rooms.
>> A ticket into spirituality.
>> Spirit of holistic education.
>> Kindred spirits.
>> Sense of what it would be
like to really be themselves.
>> Retreats have
always been important.
>> Learning environment.
>> Omega is a great gift.
>> You're always
going to the desert.
>> There's hundreds of
thousands of seekers.
>> Tool for unity.
>> You always retreat.
>> Refuge in the 21st century.
>> I'm 43 years old, and I
want to tell you my story.
About 15 years ago, I developed
a rash on my knee-- actually,
something that you
would think would
be something you
could go to the doctor
for and get rid of quite easily.
But I went to several, several
doctors over about a one
month period and
nobody could tell me
why I had this crazy rash
outbreak on both of my knees.
Then that went away and I
started getting sore throats.
Every time I went to the
doctor for my sore throat,
I was given an antibiotic that
worked while I was taken it,
but as soon as I
stopped taking it,
the sore throat came back worse
than it was the first time.
This happened over a
couple month period
until finally, by the time
I had my fifth sore throat
and went back to
the same doctor,
she told me she had to
give me an antibiotic.
She only had one
left to give me.
Very, very strong.
She was a little concerned
about giving it to me,
but she didn't know
what else to do.
So she gave me this antibiotic,
I went and got it filled out.
And for the first time,
I read the paper--
the leaflet that comes
with the antibiotic.
And I don't even
know why I did it.
Just something told
me why don't you
read this and see what it is.
Come to find out it
was an antibiotic
that was so strong that
they gave it to people
who had venereal diseases.
That scared me, and
I didn't take it.
And I'm really
glad that I did it
because I feel that if I had,
I would be dead right now.
Miraculously, the sore throats
kind of went off on their own.
But what took place was I
started getting joint pain.
It started in my
knees and the doctor
said it was torn cartilage.
They wanted to go in and
apply surgery to my knees.
Something told me don't
do that, and I didn't.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I did some physical
therapy, instead.
But the knee pain
never really went away,
but your body starts
getting used to pain.
And it adapts.
And you put up with it.
Then over a five-year
period, what
happened to me was the
pain spread from my knees
into all of my other
joints until my joints were
so bad that I literally,
could not even
hold the phone to my
ear for more than five
or six seconds at a time.
If I did do that, my whole
arm would stiffen up.
I would have to pull it
out-- pull my fingertips out.
So what I started
doing was when I
had to have phone
conversations, I
would put the phone on the
bed and I would lay down
and talk into it that way.
I couldn't carry a
purse in my hands.
I couldn't carry bags.
I just, over the years,
learned to live with pain.
All the time going to
conventional doctors,
the doctors never
were able to find out
what was wrong with me.
In fact, I had one
doctor actually tell me
I had too many symptoms.
And it was just too
confusing for her.
So I kept looking for different
doctors and different doctors.
I must have gone through, over
a five-year period, probably
15 doctors.
That I would try for a while
and they would give me thyroid
tests, Lyme's disease tests.
Give me all kinds of
different medicines
they thought would cure me.
In the beginning,
I was very confused
because I didn't understand
how or why I was feeling pain.
I was always a very,
very healthy person.
Very energetic.
And very bubbly and happy.
I would wake up in the morning
very excited about the day.
But as these pains
started setting in,
I started withdrawing.
And I started to wish
that I wasn't here.
Not to wish that I was--
not that I would end my life,
but I started doing things
like, leaving my
car unlocked when
I had to drive down to Miami.
Wondering what it would be like
when I drove across the bridge
if my car accidentally
steered itself
off and landed into the water.
I really-- I started
scaring myself
with the thoughts that were
going through my head that
had me recognizing that I
was wanting my life to end
because the pain was so bad.
One day, I ran
into an old friend
who I hadn't seen in a while.
And when I had known this
friend, he had diabetes--
very bad, actually.
He was taking lots
of medication.
And last time I had seen him,
it was very difficult for him
even to walk.
And I ran into him and here
he is, 70-year-old man.
Very energetic, nice
tan, looking great.
And I'm saying to him,
what happened to you?
Last time I saw you,
you looked like you're
ready for your deathbed.
And now, you look like
you're 40 years old.
So he told me about
this alternative doctor
that he was seeing who
happened to be a heart surgeon.
So he was a conventional
doctor to begin with--
a heart surgeon--
who now was studying
Ayurvedic medicine,
which is what we call
alternative medicine over here.
So I just was
praying please, let
me hold on long enough to get
to see this doctor and see.
It's the last chance--
the last person
I will go and see
if they can help me.
So I went to the
doctor and I remember
I was on the second floor.
And I remember waiting
for the doctor,
looking out the glass
window at this willow tree.
And the branches were just
gently swaying with the breeze.
And I remember thinking
looking at those branches
and just wishing that I could
be one of those branches hanging
off of that tree.
Just without any pain.
Without a care in the world.
Swaying in the breeze--
that's what I wanted so bad.
And then, the doctor came
in and he sat me down.
And he put his hand
on my wrist, which
is Ayurvedic medicine--
they take a pulse here.
There's three different
pulses and it tells the doctor
what's happening to you.
So he sits down.
He takes my wrist, doesn't
say anything to me.
Says hello, but then that's it.
Closes his eyes and he just
sits for a couple of minutes.
And then, he opens his eyes
and he tells me a number.
And I'm like, what?
What do you mean?
He says a particular number.
And then, I realized that
he was giving me a year.
He said I'm telling you the
year that your illness started.
And I didn't even stop
to think about what
year did all this happen.
I knew how many
years I'd been sick.
So what I did was I counted
back and I realized, oh, my god.
He hit it right on the head.
That's exactly the year
that my rash started
and I started getting sick.
And then, I felt this
relief come over me.
I knew that this
was the one that I
was guided to come to see him
because he was going to help
me go back towards health.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I agreed to do
everything that he said.
I started on an
exercise routine.
I started taking up yoga.
He taught me sun salutations.
He taught me about meditation.
About visualization.
About diet.
The importance of water.
All kinds of real simple
things that I was amazed I
had never been told about.
After a few months of
my new lifestyle change,
I woke up one day and
was talking to my mom
on the phone, all of a
sudden, I recognized--
and I even said to
her-- my, god, mom,
how long have we been talking?
And she said, oh, I don't
know about 15 or 20 minutes.
And I said wait,
hold on a second.
And I took the phone down and
I'm doing this with my arm.
And I realized, oh my god.
There's no pain there.
And pick the phone
back up and I'm
really excited because it's
like, it's unbelievable.
It's all gone.
It's just-- it's gone.
And I was so excited.
I felt as if 500 pounds was
lifted off of my shoulders.
Literally, I felt like
I could float away,
like I had to hold myself
down or I would float away.
And everything from
that day forward
started looking
different-- everything.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You see, nobody can heal you,
except for yourself-- that's
what I learned.
And it's a physical
and mental thing.
In other words, don't
become a vegetarian
and still hate the world.
Because if you haven't
changed up here,
if you haven't learned to love
people with all of their faults
and accept them, then it's
going to be very difficult.
I always thought
that the perfect life
was one that was always happy
with no pain and no suffering.
And what I learned from
my illness and my recovery
is that there is no such
thing as a life without pain
and suffering.
And so what I learned to do was
embrace it and learn from it.
And that's what I do.
So when the
challenges come along,
instead of thinking
of it as a problem,
I see it as a new way for
me to learn something else
about myself and the universe.
Because if I had
never gotten ill,
I never would have
come into this new life
and this new awareness
with my eyes being
open to so many things.
And I'm just so much less
judgmental than I used to be.
I accept a lot of things.
And I hate nothing,
even the hard times.
I don't hate them.
I appreciate them as
a learning experience.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I think my story as beginning
when I was three months old
and came down with eczema,
which is a skin disease
that both of my parents had.
And my mother asked my
father for a divorce the day
that I was born.
And my skin has been a
barometer of stress in my life.
And when I was three, my father
moved my three older brothers
and me to New York.
And I spent a month
in the hospital.
And my hair came out and I
had sores all of my body.
So that was my first
hospitalization.
And then at the
age of 10, I also
lost my hair from pulling it
out because my scalp itched
so much.
And I had it all over me.
And at that point,
doctors discovered
that I responded very
well to cortisone.
And so they gave me shots,
and pills, and so forth.
And then for 35
years, I used creams
to keep the eczema at bay
whenever there was a problem.
Five years ago, I
moved to New York City
when my youngest
son went to college.
And I met a very wonderful
professor of art history
and I married him.
And my skin got bad right away.
And it got worse
and worse and worse.
So bad that I really could have
been in the hospital, again.
This time, I didn't
want to use cortisone.
And I had been pursuing a lot
of different healing modalities.
And he told someone
that I was an invalid.
And I went to him and
I said, do you really
think I'm an invalid?
I'm running around and
doing a lot of stuff,
I'm not really an invalid.
And he said but you are
because you don't eat normally.
And you don't--
nothing is normal.
Because I was on a very
restricted diet and so forth.
And he said I admire your
tenacity, and your enthusiasm,
and your optimism, but
you've got a chronic illness.
And you're going to have this
for the rest of your life.
And it was then that
I realized I had
to leave this marriage, too.
That I could not deal with
being viewed as an invalid.
And so I asked him
for separation a year
and a half ago.
And have continued to pursue
a variety of different--
acupuncture and healers.
In any way, the
good news is that it
lifted about a month ago.
It has stopped being a problem.
I'm eating normally and not
having reactions from the food.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I don't have the pieces
figured out yet at all,
but I think also, that a
very important piece for me
was that when I was a little
girl and suffering badly
with eczema, I had
a wonderful nurse--
a governess who came
from Sweden, named Eva.
And Eva believed
very much in God.
And told me that I
could pray and that I
would be helped through prayer.
And that has been invaluable
to me over my lifetime.
Not that I have
believed consistently,
but over the
decades, I have come
to absolutely believe that there
is a force working to help us.
I think that there
are forces that
work to repair psychic wounds,
as well as physical wounds.
And so, I have found
prayer enormously helpful.
One image that I had that was
important to me was that when I
was in what some people call
the dark night of the soul,
during the time
after my father died,
and my marriage had broken up,
and my mother-in-law whom I
adored had died--
I felt as though I was in the
bottom of an empty swimming
pool--
a very deep swimming pool.
And that I couldn't get out.
But what would happen was
that handles would appear just
when I needed it.
There'd be a rung there--
I guess, maybe a thing to
put my foot on, as well.
So that I was just gradually
able to climb out of that pit.
But my skin has
cleared up since then.
So I used to say to people,
you got to listen to your body.
You've got to really
pay attention.
But I found it impossible
to face it myself
for many, many, many months.
And eventually, I saw it
in talking to a friend who
said, how are things going?
And in the course of one
lunch, I said, oh my god.
I am so miserable and I've
got to leave the marriage.
So I think that the thing
that I say to people when
they are really,
really depressed
is that it's very hard to have
perspective on where you are.
And that if you believe
that you can get better.
And if you believe that
you're going to be helped
and that the universe
is a friendly place,
that makes a lot of difference.
It really does.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So how it all
weaves in together--
I don't know.
But in a very
simple way, I guess
I would say that when my
skin is giving me trouble,
I need to really try
to understand, what are
the feelings that I'm avoiding?
That's probably clear that
I'm not wanting to feel sad.
But it's awfully hard to
see that when you're in it.
I think of it as trying
to help me see something.
When I was 33 years old,
I had a medical crisis
and developed a heart disease.
And the heart
disease, essentially,
was a narrowing of the
left ventricle of my heart
which caused
shortness of breath.
I wasn't able to
gain any weight.
I was tired.
I had very dark circles under
my eyes most of the time.
All along this time, I was
not really able to function.
And previously, I had
been pretty physical.
I saw for myself
that I was really
in a fight for the
life situation.
Emotionally I was saying,
my heart is broken.
And why did this happen to me?
So I began to learn
more about what it was
that was causing this problem.
It manifested in a physical way.
Yet, what was really going
on were some very basic core
issues emotionally that
came from my childhood.
I was a very responsible
child because my mother
had had a medical crisis,
also, when she was very young.
So basically, I didn't
get the nurturing
and the sense of mother
love that most children had.
So I took on the role of
taking care of the family
and, by no mistake,
was I a nurse.
So at that time, when
I became very ill,
I began to bring people
into my life that
would be able to give me the
kind of nurturing fulfillment--
all of the things that
little children learn.
And so, I learned to
talk about how I felt.
And what my needs were.
And have a vision for my future.
I was a nurse.
And so I certainly took the
teachings from the doctors
and used the medicine and
helped myself in that way.
And also, went other routes
to work on the core issues
that I needed to work on.
So I began to study
yoga, to learn more
about who it was that I was
inside me on a spiritual level.
By opening up my heart to
connecting with other people,
being willing to learn from
the environment, or nature,
spirituality, who I was as a
woman helped to heal the heart.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Today, I have my own private
practice within my home.
Last August, I was married.
I'm 56 years old.
These things I-- at
one point-- would never
have thought that I could
really have accomplished.
And it is related to
the heart disease.
To the core issue of
not having been loved.
The heart condition
that I developed
is no longer in existence.
There's no symptoms
of the heart disease.
So I mended that heart
through the lifestyle change.
And today, am seeing that in
my life on a regular basis.
Choice is everything and
everything is choice.
And that's what I'm
doing is that I'm
choosing to create what
it is that's best for me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]